<ol class="breadcrumb">
  <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
  <li><a href="/book/">Book</a></li>
  <li><a href="/book/3-0-0-overview/">Part Three: Lisp So(u)rcery</a></li>
  <li class="active">Cross-Platform Desktop Applications</li>
</ol>

## Chapter 3.3

# Cross-Platform Desktop Applications

> "A skillful Artist in shapes and appearances does no more than necessary to create His effect."
> <footer>Robert A. Heinlein, <em>Job: A Comedy of Justice</em></footer>

Assuming your target user-base is not comprised entirely of Lisp Hackers, your users will not be interested in receiving a source-code distribution; they will expect a binary distribution that can be installed and uninstalled, and an interface to your app that is familiar.  This means a few different things---first, that your application's UI *looks* like other applications; it *works* like other applications; and it fits into the Operating System like all other applications.

In Common Lisp, there are a lot of choices to provide desktop graphical user interfaces; but GUI applications are still a lot of work, and need to be carefully designed to support cross-platform deployment.  Unfortunately, there is no one-size-fits-all solution to this problem, but there are options which make the task manageable.

For commercial, cross-platform desktop applications, the cleanest, simplest solution is the CAPI library included in all versions of LispWorks.  For 90% of your GUI-application projects, you will need the features and workflow that LispWorks provides; for the rest, an open-source alternative might be preferable, even though they all fall short of the CAPI feature-set.  In order to distribute binaries of your desktop app, you will need the professional version of LispWorks or above for each platform you wish to target---but you can write and test your applications with the free personal edition.

---

Discuss Smoke/QT bindings, LTK, McCLIM, SDL + Dormouse, LispWorks CAPI, etc.

LTK for developing rapid cross-platform guis.

Develop a cross-platform LTK app for OS X, Windows, and Linux, package it for each OS appropriately.

Note: consider a wrapper around Atom-Shell, for writing rapid web technology based cross-platform applications.

<ul class="pager">
  <li class="previous"><a href="/book/3-02-0-mobile/">&laquo; Previous</a></li>
  <li><a href="/book/">Table of Contents</a></li>
  <li class="next"><a href="/book/3-04-0-system-utils/">Next &raquo;</a><li>
</ul>
