<ol class="breadcrumb">
  <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
  <li><a href="/book/">Book</a></li>
  <li><a href="/book/3-0-0-overview/">Part Three: Lisp So(u)rcery</a></li>
  <li class="active">Artificial Intelligence</li>
</ol>

## Chapter 3.16

# Artificial Intelligence

> "Relevant quote..."
> <footer>Source</footer>

There is a strong historical association of the LISP-family of programming languages with Artificial Intelligence research; while this is mostly accidental, as some notable early Lisp Hackers happened to also be AI researchers, and in particular, John McCarthy---the creator of the original LISP language---also managed to earn himself the title, "the Father of Modern AI".  And of course, we can't forget that the ANSI Committee working on the Common Lisp standard itself was sponsored by DARPA primarily for military-grade artificial intelligence software.

These days, however, there are many good choices for so-called "AI Languages"---and Common Lisp, the general-purpose, high-level, multi-paradigm, programmable programming language is just as strong a choice for AI as for any other problem domain.

It may benefit the reader to know more about the different kinds of AI software that one can write.  Many people still hear the term "AI" and get scared---visions of hostile, AI-powered robots from a variety of Science Fiction stories spring to mind; combined with Elon Musk's recent outburst about "summoning the devil".  But AI-research is *nowhere near* the sufficient level of sophistication to allow for *emergent machine intelligence*.  The reality of all AI software-agents written to date is that they are no more than highly complex *impersonations* of intelligent behaviour---and because their behaviour is entirely programmed, the emergence of genuine machine intelligence within them is not even a possibility.

So, anyone who is fearful of a future where we are ruled or destroyed by our robot creations need not be, as *the more behaviour you program into an AI agent, the less likely it is to develop sentience*.  In order to create a Strong, or General AI agent that supports the potential for emergent machine intelligence, one would have to recreate the exact conditions in which intelligence emerges naturally---and that is to say, we would not be creating a hostile or demonic AI-overlord that determines humanity must be destroyed; by recreating the exact conditions in which intelligence already emerges naturally, we would simply be creating an artificial *human being*.  But therein also lies the challenge; there is still so much that we do not understand about the human brain, that it is not even yet a feasible undertaking to attempt to create an artificial human brain.  And furthermore, there is still the question of just how much instinctual knowledge humans are born with, compared to some other species of animal life; and what instinct actually means, when you consider a computational model of consciousness.

In short, the threat of hostile AI is not worth worrying about; as usual, the only threat is with the people who wield AI techniques for the exploitation of others.

---

Overview of historical association of Lisp with AI research, and various methodologies.

Write a smarter version of Eliza that learns, building on Quantum Computing and Natural Language Processing chapters.

<ul class="pager">
  <li class="previous"><a href="/book/3-15-0-nlp/">&laquo; Previous</a></li>
  <li><a href="/book/">Table of Contents</a></li>
  <li class="next"><a href="/book/3-17-0-robotics/">Next &raquo;</a><li>
</ul>
